CONNOR: 'Jason Morgan.
'Rob Wright.'
Who the hell is he?
We are definitely
in serial-killer territory.
MONICA: 'They had another phone.'
PHONE BEEPS.
'Just like Rob.'
'Did you look into them?'
The Burning Light.
they've moved to the Isle of Mull.
It's for the best
that I take Lucy to him.
GRUNTING
And what about your mummy?
She's a police officer? Mm-hm.
Was she the one that told you
about the poison?
MONICA: These were
inside the victims.
I told you before he disappeared
that he was holding a stone
just like that.
You didn't listen.
I trusted you. Monica.
Hey. mother. Nichol?
Could join me on the hunt tomorrow?
Is this cos of what the police said?
I'm not weak.
I can look after myself.
Ah!
INTRUDER GRUNTS
Ugh! Ah!
Argh!
GRUNT. THUD
Help me!
MONICA GASPS Monica. It's OK.
It's me. Hi.
Mum? What?
Your phone has been going non-stop.
Shit.
I didn't wanna wake you.
The Crawfords turned up. and I...
Ugh. Morning.
Another? Yeah. sadly.
This kid managed to escape. It's...
It's. erm... It's quite a trek.
I'll. er. wait in the car.
Let you get...
Mm. Yep. See you.
Mum. you're hovering. Speak.
So. I saw Philly yesterday
at the play park.
SIGHS She...
What?
Well. it ended with me slapping her.
Slapping her?
I don't know what came over me.
I just saw red and...
How could you do something so mad?
Mad? She tried to take Lucy.
What?! Snatch her. Yeah.
Don't call me mad.
At least start with that.
You brought her into our lives
when you were investigating
that cult. Careful.
True. Monica.
You know
she's completely brainwashed.
just like you were
after they sucked you in.
Mum. You were at rock bottom.
You were penniless.
You were pregnant.
But because you had me
to help you through.
you didn't end up like Philly.
So don't make out
that I am the villain here.
Oh. no. I know
that's my role in this family.
Oh. no. that...
That's not what I meant.
No. no.
Clearly been thinking it a while.
No. I didn't mean it
to come out that way.
Look. Mum. later. Tonight.
We'll talk about this tonight.
Yeah. OK.
What do you want me to do?
Keep Lucy at home today.
Absolutely.
'Inspector Hately.
it's all well and good
'you telling people to stay calm.
'but there is a maniac
on the loose killing young men.'
'I understand their concern.'
'They don't want your understanding.
'They want to know when you're
going to stop this monster.'
First response again.
Not this time.
He fled to a garage about
half a mile or so down the road.
Member of staff called it in.
By the time units got here.
they realised
what they were dealing with.
So we probably lost six.
seven hours.
What's his recollection like?
Part of me thinks it'd be easier
for him if it wasn't so good.
Want me to introduce you? Mm.
Scott. this is Detective Inspector
Monica Kennedy.
She'd just like to ask you
a few questions. Is that OK?
Hi. Scott.
Could you walk me through
what happened?
Walk? You mean in the house?
That's right.
It could prove vital in stopping him
hurting someone else.
Time sensitive. Up against it here.
Mm.
It's good you've got her back.
That's a rare thing for Monica.
Her partners don't stick around
for long.
I heard she was different
before she had her girl.
Oh. right.
She popped a baby out
and that set her all askew (?)
Seriously?
No. I never meant it like that.
I was just... What?
All coincided with her investigating
the Burning Light. right?
Not that I knew her before.
but from what I gather.
Monica has always... been Monica.
Where would you
watch this house from?
If I was a murdering psychopath?
Yeah.
Nice bit of foliage.
Keep me company?
Start from the beginning.
SCOTT BREATHES SHAKILY
It was... It was there.
That's where you saw him? It.
Nothing seemed human.
Meaning what? It was his face.
It was... BREATHES DEEPLY.
He was wearing a mask?
I need you to describe it.
I prayed you'd return.
HE CHUCKLES DRYLY
So. Jason was taken from in here?
And... both of you are in?
Nichol... Barclay.
You... You prayed to bring him
into our lives. too. didn't you?
When it was just the two of us.
But he never accepted me as his own.
So. what have the police said?
We're waiting on updates.
What. that's it?
What. there's no leads?
I should be asking more.
shouldn't I?
If I'd have been here.
I could have protected him.
But no.
No. I was... I was forced
out of my own home
because you. my own mother.
didn't stand up for me.
Don't.
He was my little brother. Mum.
And...
HORN HONKS OUTSIDE
CAR DOOR SHUTS
Barclay. What?
Don't go mad. but... What?
Alive. then?
Sorry to disappoint.
Why are you here?
Well. because Jason...
Don't say his name.
I will say my brother's name
whenever I want.
When did he get back?
Last night.
You didn't call me.
You still let him speak to you
like that?
Where the fuck have you been?
A lot of... terrible places.
LAUGHS
Hmm.
Well. you're not staying here.
Yes. he is.
He is.
Ever wanted to be a detective?
No.
You'd be good at it. I know.
Christ. do you think I look at you
like you're the Holy Grail?
Oh. you look at me. Carol?
BOTH CHUCKLE.
Places to be? Yeah.
I need to get back to Dwayne
and Johnson.
My black Labs.
Oh. I love Labradors.
I begged for one as a kid. No joy.
Well. you dodged a bullet.
They're a nightmare.
They eat everything.
I spent most of last Christmas
pulling tinsel
out of Dwayne's arsehole.
BOTH LAUGH
Erm...
Good spot to watch from. Yeah.
Something?
Looks like a nicotine pouch.
Yeah. Bingo. Got a poo bag?
Nice one.
MONICA: 'Your mum's working
in France?'
Yeah. she's there more than here.
Always working.
You're home alone a lot. then.
I guess. I've got a job. though.
Doing what?
Bits and bobs for a handyman.
My dad thinks it's important too -
learning the value of money.
Don't tell my mum that.
Why not? She'd go nuts.
I'm not meant to have contact
with him. but he's my dad.
He's not some monster.
like she'd make out.
He's been really trying
since he reached back out.
Fuck. He'll be worried.
I didn't message him back.
Scott. how does he contact you?
Tell me.
The phone he sent me.
Can I see it?
I'll need to hang on to this.
And your regular phone?
You dropped it when you ran?
Went for a stroll.
Assumed he surveyed the house.
Found a nicotine pouch.
Getting DNA fast-tracked.
Any sign of a burner phone?
No sign.
Scott says the killer
wears a pale mask.
Christ. Made from animal skin.
by the sounds of it.
Poor animal.
Hey. Look at this.
Impression of the killer's mask.
What? Why would he wear that?
He wants to terrify his victims.
too?
Well. masks tend to represent desire
to separate identity.
Monster at night. normality by day.
He has a tendency
towards the theatrics.
the staging. taxidermy. the stones.
He wants to be seen.
which leans into the likelihood
that he feels invisible by day.
Educated. frustrated...
plagued by doubts
about his own strength.
hence the need to drug his victims.
Luckily for Scott.
he didn't drink his smoothie.
so he remained conscious.
and the others were easy pickings
for him.
Here. I'll get Carol
to run Scott to the station.
keep an eye on him there
till his mum returns.
PHONE RINGS
Scott was saying something
about staying with some guy. Don.
who he works with.
No. no. best keep him close.
Why don't you ride along with Carol
in case Scott remembers
anything else?
Yeah. sure. I'll catch you there.
See you.
Thanks. mate. See you later.
Nichol's back.
KNOCKING
Can I help you?
Hi. I'm James
from Kintosh Council.
I'm just here to talk about Lucy.
Erm. are you here about
that "poisoning tummies" nonsense?
I mean. I don't understand
how this meeting was allowed
to happen
without us being told about it.
Don't worry.
It's just standard practice.
The school flag
when they think a kid is vulnerable.
and then. hey. presto. me.
assigned social worker.
Vulnerable?
Does Lucy have access to harmful
material around the house?
Files of her mum's cases?
Of course not. OK.
What else do you need to know?
Well. honestly.
just a tiny bit more.
Erm...
Sorry.
why is Lucy not at school today?
Oh. she wasn't feeling very well.
She doesn't look too unwell to me.
That's kids for you.
So resilient. they just bounce back.
Yeah.
And how's your resilience?
How are you coping with Lucy?
I don't "cope" with her.
I'm her grandmother. I love her.
As does her mother.
Oh. yeah. Monica. CHUCKLES
I've had the pleasure.
Lucy. do you wanna come over
and have a chat?
It's all right. sweetheart.
Yeah?
There you go.
Do you remember me? I'm James.
I asked you a couple of questions
last time we met.
I remember you. Yeah.
Yeah. Oh. Good girl.
CHUCKLES
What's he doing here?
This is your doing. You called him?
He knew him best.
Looks like there's a difference
of opinion on me being here.
Yeah. huge one.
This... This is mad.
Maybe you're right.
Me being here's a mistake.
Hello. Michael.
I thought the worst.
Buried in a ditch
or at the bottom of a loch.
God. Michael. I had no idea.
I'm... I'm so sorry.
I had... gotten so scared that all
I felt like I could do was run.
Where? I went to London.
It's very easy to disappear there.
You know. streets. hostels.
What made you so scared
that you ran?
Barclay... ruled through love
and hate.
Jason. his real son. got the love.
I got the hate. OK?
And it just got too much for me.
That must be hard.
It wasn't you I saw
on the television.
It was another woman talking
about Jason.
I'm leading the investigation.
Oh. and it's gone where. exactly?
Any suspects?
Hopefully. you can help me.
LAUGHS
Oh. me?
OK. Right.
Well. I am your hope
at solving this. am I?
My little brother was killed.
Michael...
No. You know what?
I have so many what-ifs
running around in my head.
You know. like.
"What if I'd have stayed?
"Maybe I could have
protected Jason." But...
Before you left.
you had a black stone.
A stone? Yes.
Yeah. the last few times we talked.
you were holding one.
You. er... You kissed it.
Do you mean like this?
These were wishing stones.
I always carry one with me.
a lucky charm.
If it's important.
you can have it.
Are they linked to the murders?
We think so.
Do you know Owen MacLennan?
No. Mum works for the family.
He died the night before last.
Died?
Is it the person that...
killed Jason?
We found a photo of you inside
a taxidermied rabbit in his room.
Wh...?
Me? What. in a... in a rabbit?
It wasn't just your photo.
It was Jason's. Robert Wright's
and an intended victim's.
Well. why would my photo
be with theirs?
You have no idea?
No. I... What. me?
No. HE SCOFFS.
Where were you last night?
I was here with my mum.
SCOTT: 'Let me out! Let me out!'
DHILLON: 'Scott...'
I wanted to go to Don's house.
not with you. All right.
I promise you. bud.
You're OK. you're OK.
Come on. mate. Just deep breaths.
Deep breaths. Come on.
SCOTT HYPERVENTILATING
Police can't even stop shoplifters.
I mean. rightly. you're upset.
but... How much further?
It's about 20 minutes.
Scott. you are safe.
Scott. did you hear that?
It's just 20 minutes.
Erm...
I'm bursting.
Yeah. OK.
Looks a bit dry down there.
So. do you believe him?
Do you think he's involved?
What. you still trust my judgement?
The way I spoke to you.
blaming you...
Look. I don't know
if I'll agree with your opinion.
but I want to hear it.
HE EXHALES
I made the stones
into this huge thing.
and he was just there
with one in his hand.
So. do you believe him?
That he doesn't know anything?
Look. he was...
He's not the boy I remember.
But that's what grief does.
So. yeah.
I believe him.
OK. Still. let's keep an eye on him.
All right. mate.
Yeah. we're heading your way.
Oh. about... about that.
There's...
There's a bit of an issue.
OK. Spill.
So. Scott freaked out.
and. erm. he needed
to go out for a wee...
and he's legged it.
Not serious?
'We've searched the woods nearby...'
Shit.
Er. they've lost Scott.
You're on loudspeaker to Kennedy.
Hadid. Hit on the DNA
from your tobacco pouch.
Don Cameron.
As in Roderick Cameron's son?
Scott said something
about staying with a Don.
A handyman he works for.
"Handyman"?
That's a euphemism and a half
for a family of guns for hire.
The Camerons live not far from here.
We could go knock.
see if Scott's headed there.
No. That family's history.
there may be weapons on site.
Just... head there. get some eyes
on the house and wait for us.
'We'll call for back-up.' OK.
Y-Yes. Ma'am.
BREATHING HEAVILY
BREATHING SHAKILY
UNDER BREATH: Come on.
Come on.
HE SOBS
SOBBING
KNOCK AT DOOR
Down here.
Something to warm you.
COMMENTARY ON TV
RODERICK: Flukey bastard!
TV: 'That is clinical.'
Come on. boy.
Police are treating me like a baby.
Got me all locked up and everything.
Snuck away?
Is that a problem? No.
RODERICK: Jesus Christ!
RODERICK COUGHING
Likes his snooker. eh?
Yeah.
Scott?
Can stay.
Be safe here.
Wash up. Bathroom's along the way.
RODERICK: Is that tea
coming yet. eh?
COUGHING
RODERICK CHUNTERING
Oh. Jesus.
PHONE RINGS
Er. there's no sign of Scott.
Back-up should be here soon.
RODERICK: Black!
RODDERICK CACKLING. COUGHING
I opened the wrong door.
Sorry.
You can ask me.
The photo.
It's OK. I pried.
RODERICK: Water!
Do you need to check on him?
COUGHING
My broth will be getting cold.
Come on. boy...
Scott?
Wait! Let me explain.
To Don and the other...
There's movement.
Shit.
Scott!
He's got my phone!
SCOTT PANTING
It's Don. isn't it? He's the killer.
You're safe. Get yourself in here.
CRAWFORD: All right.
Get in there. Here you go.
Oh. Christ. What is he doing?
Are his arms still raised?
This is totally against protocol.
We should be waiting for back-up.
'Crawford.'
Yes. still raised.
Don? My name's
Detective Inspector Kennedy.
I'm gonna need you to step out
with your arms raised.
Can you do that for me?
Can you say you understand for me?
I understand.
On three. Nice and calm.
One... two... three.
Thank you. Perfect.
I'm gonna approach now. Don.
Come on. Kennedy.
Now turn around
with your hands on your head.
HANDCUFFS CLINK
Taking your right wrist now.
That's it. Nice and easy.
Now your left.
Nice and easy.
OK.
Said nothing? Mm.
Anyone else in the property?
Just Don's father.
I'm gonna see what he can tell us
about Don's movements last night.
I'm gonna have a look around.
I reckon this sick bastard
keeps trophies.
Maybe you'll get back
to your Labs after all.
Be a drink I need.
Is that an invite?
Statement. Oh. semantics.
THEY LAUGH
COMMENTARY ON TV
Roderick. it's the police.
Not senile.
Or fucking blind.
TV: 'Playing with real purpose now.'
You gonna stand there all day?
'Beautiful cue action.
'These two players
aren't giving an inch.
'as we saw in the round of 16.'
Mind if I turn the TV off?
I know how it ends.
Don's in a lot of trouble.
Time is neither of our friend.
Ask your question.
Was Don here last night?
If every question's a memory test.
you're doomed wi' me.
Better with names?
Jason Morgan?
Robert Wright? Owen MacLennan?
All dead. I guess?
Been watching the news.
not just snooker reruns. then.
HE COUGHS
Sorry.
Names. Pure fog.
Scott MacKay? Hm?
Trickster. He's alive.
Heard his voice only minutes ago.
The serial killer
targeted him last night.
Evidence points
to Don being on the scene.
Scott's convinced too.
HE CHUCKLES SOFTLY
Odd boy. my Don.
Funny way about him.
Still. he went very quietly.
You don't think Don's a killer?
Oh. Don could kill. all right.
A lot's been written about you.
Roderick.
Must be sad when it's only
the obituary left to do.
Always time for one last chapter.
FOOTSTEPS APPROACH
DHILLON: Here. Kennedy.
You need to see this.
Have a license for these? No.
Aw. look at his little heart.
all a-jingling.
Relax.
They're long deactivated.
Just memories they hold now.
Do us a tea.
In the pot.
No. Oh...
HE CHUCKLES SOFTLY
Mean boy.
Look like a nice lass.
Agh!
HE CHUCKLES
HE COUGHS
Fresh lock. Sourcing some cutters.
Ah.
Kindness... never gets forgot.
Oh.
Thank you.
There's a locked cellar outside.
Oh. Is that so?
It won't take us long to unlock it
so might as well tell us
what we'll find.
Maybe...
SHOUTING: it's
the fucking treasure I buried
when I wasn't hooked up
to these fucking tanks!
HE WHEEZES
Only kidding...
boy.
Maybe the goodies
my Don likes to hide away.
Custard cream?
Gun! SHE GRUNTS.
RODERICK CACKLING.
DHILLON GROANS
Gun! RODERICK ROARS.
Fuck off! Officers down!
Ah. you bastard police.
coming into my place!
DHILLON BREATHING RAPIDLY
Carol? Carol? Hey...
Look at me. Look at me.
I've got you. I've got you.
It's gonna be all right. No. no. no.
Don't close your eyes on me. pal.
No. no.
Urgent assistance.
Urgent assistance needed.
Shut up! Shut him up!
DC Connor Crawford.
Urgent assistance needed. er...
East Blaric Farm.
Two officers down.
Stay with me. mate. Stay with me.
Yeah. two officers down.
Gunshot wounds.
One unresponsive. one severe.
Your full support needed.
Just breathe.
Here we go. Sorry. pal. Hey. hey!
Hey. Carol. Carol. Carol.
Hey! No. no.
Come on. pal. stay with me.
Help's on its way. all right?
POLICE RADIO CHATTER
Up.
Fine. be no use. Monica!
We should have waited for back-up.
I'm just going to sit with you.
ENGINE STARTS
Found mine near Scott's. then.
So you're not denying
you were there.
What were you doing there. Don?
Watching?
Like with Rob Wright and Jason?
Scott was by himself.
Mum left him. No dad to protect him.
So you were there to do that?
The news said
to keep men like Scott safe.
RADIO: 'Detective Kennedy.
we need you to pull in...'
SHE SWITCHES RADIO OFF
They think you're driving
to drown me in a loch.
Who said I'm not? The road.
Route to your station.
I'm not who you're looking for.
Scott's phone in your possession.
DNA linking you to the scene.
Your dad won't cut it as an alibi.
I have a son.
Last night. I was visiting my boy.
Where?
His grave. All Wells Church.
There's CCTV.
So you weren't there
when Scott was attacked?
Think your man would be alive
if I was?
I went to check on Scott
this morning.
I saw the police
and kept my distance.
That's when I found his phone.
I must have dropped
a nicotine patch.
PHONE BEEPS
Are you OK. love? Hungry?
I'll be through to do tea in five.
This has been a wee bit fiddly.
Did you put my bag in the boot?
I'll bring it in. hon.
It's fine. You're busy.
Just let me finish this.
It's a bit oily.
Tammy?
You OK? Yeah. Yeah.
OK. Come on. My bike can wait.
Let's get tea on.
Don't fall for this act.
He's the same snake he always was.
Get him booked.
Every protocol.
all of his rights...
you've undermined them.
Even a shite solicitor
could shred our case.
Irrelevant.
Irrelevant?
Don's not the killer.
DNA has him at the scene.
He was in possession
of Scott's phone.
Don doesn't fit the profile.
Limited education.
He works and lives in nature.
not at a desk.
He believes in the fairness
of the hunt. He'd never...
All I'm hearing is theory.
Where's your evidence?
Give me one fact.
Go check the CCTV
at All Wells Church last night.
Don visiting his son's grave.
Hold him till his alibi checks out.
but in the meantime.
the killer's still out there.
You've made a complete mess of this.
Monica. Where are we now?
An officer dead.
Dhillon seriously ill.
Neighbours suspicious of neighbours.
All for what? Another dead end.
Please tell me you've got something.
SHE SIGHS
Then we need fresh eyes.
By the time you draft someone else
in. there'll be another boy dead.
Your statement will need taking.
A welfare assessment.
Or you could turn around
and I'll walk away.
PHONE BUZZES
This is your last chance. Monica.
Kennedy. wh-where are you going?
Don's inside. Not him.
What do you mean. not him?
Go inside. It'll be explained.
Where are you going?
They'll want your statement too.
What sort of an answer is that?
Go. do it. then go home.
Hey. Carol's dead. Yes.
I'm sorry. Th-That's it?
You...
You know.
everyone warned me about you.
"You get nothing from her.
She is cold. remote. a robot."
And I've tried to prove them wrong.
but they were right.
Cos here you are.
you're shutting me.
shutting everyone else out.
everyone bar Michael Bach.
I mean. a fucking suspect!
And how is that panning out for you?
Are you closer to catching him?
You're not cut out for this.
Crawford.
Fuck you. Kennedy.
There's places you just can't go.
Yeah. you're right. and
a batshit cult would be one of them.
PHONE BEEPS
WIND BLOWS. LEAVES RUSTLE
OWL HOOTS
WIND CHIMES TINKLING
PHONE BEEPS
FOOTSTEPS APPROACH
Monica.
Philly.
What are you doing here?
You came back.
Subtitles by accessibility@itv.com